# K-Coloring Problem Genetic Algorithm 

### K-Coloring Problem
//TODO

## Variables
* __cloud__ is used to set the cloud environment.
* __ch__ is the channel used to communicate with the __cloud__ environment.

* __nthread__ is the thread number of the __cloud__ environment. It's used to get the result of each serverless thread.
* __individualLength__ represents the lenght of an individual.
* __dimension__ represents the number of individuals in the __population__.
* __tournamentSize__ is the number of individuals used by the __tournamentSelection__.
* __resultSize__ represents the number of __onePointCrossover__ function calls. If the value assigned to __resultSize__ is __n__, the algorithm will generate __n * (n - 1)__ new individuals for each generation.
* __genToStop__ represents the number of generation with the same __candidate__ after which the algorithm prints the solution.

* __parent1__ is the index of the first individual who takes part in the crossover process.
* __parent2__ is the index of the second individual who takes part in the crossover process.

* __child1__ and __child2__ are the two new individuals generated by __onePointCrossover__.

* __toMutate__ is used to set the index of the individual on which to perform the __gaussianMutation__ function.

* __indPos__ represents the index of the solution.
* __currentMinColours__ represents the minimum number of colours found by the algorithm.
* __candidate__ is the index of the best individual found as a candidate solution. If it's value doesn't change for __genToStop__ generations, the algorithm prints __candidate__ as the optimal solution and terminate it's execution.
* __geToStopCounter__ is the couter associated to the __genToStop__ variable. If it's value reaches 0, the algorithm terminate.
* __population__ is a set of individuals, represented by a matrix of __dimension__ * __individualLength__ size.
* __populationFitness__ represents the set of fitness values associated to the __population__.
* __champions__ represents the set of individuals who won the __tournamentSelection__.
* __g__ is the generations counter.
* __solutionFound__ is a boolean which indicates if the solution to the problem has been found.
* __edges__ represents the edges of the graph on which execute the algorithm in the form of an adjacency matrix. 

## Functions
* __initPopulation__ initialize the __population__ with random values between 0 and 1.
* __fitness__ evaluates each individual in the population or in the new generation.
* __tournamentSelection__ create a tournament with randomly selected individuals. The winner has granted access to the crossover.
* __onePointCrossover__ generate two new individuals combining the genes of __parent 1__ and __parent 2__.
* __gaussianMutation__ randomly changes values in the gene pool of a new individual.
* __maxIndex__ returns the index of the individual with the maximum fitness value in the __population__.
* __minIndex__ returns the index of the individual with the minimum fitness value in the __population__.

## How to run
In order to correctly run the genetic algorithm, there are some rules that must be respectes:
* The values of the variable __nthread__ and its counterpart in the environment declaration (the __cloud__ variable) must be equal.
* The value of __tournamentSize__ must be less than __dimension__'s one.
* The value of __nThread__, __dimension__, __individualLength__, __tournamentSize__, __resultSize__ and __genToStop__ must be greater than 0.
* Each other variable must not be changed.
